


amqutil

Version 0.1.2

A simple test/benchmark utility for Apache Active MQ.


What is this?

amqutil is a simple Java command-line utility for testing and exercising
ActiveMQ destinations. It works with the open-source Apache ActiveMQ,
and with Red Hat JBoss Fuse and JBoss A-MQ. It can put messages onto
queues or topics, consume from queues, set message header properties,
subscribe to topics, list queue contents, and dump individual messages
in various formats. Messages can be read from and written to text files,
or just generated internally by the utility. amqutil supports transacted
batches, durable subscriptions, inter- message delays, and persistent
and non-persistent production.

amqutil is intended to extend the test client functionality provided
by the mq- client.jar utility that is supplied with JBoss A-MQ. Its
command-line is similar (but not identical), but amqutil provides a
number of features that mq- client.jar does not, particularly around
queue and broker browsing, and message formatting.

As of version 0.1.1, amqutil can use the AMQP protocol via Apache
QPID, rather than ActiveMQ OpenWire. This feature is enabled for
all commands using the --qpid switch.

amqutil is supplied as a Java JAR file that embeds the ActiveMQ client
runtime, so installation consists of downloading one JAR file and copying
it to any convenient directory.


Sample command lines

amqutil is supplied as a Java JAR file (see the Downloads section),
and should be invoked like this:


  java -jar /path/to/amqutil.jar [command] {options}

However, throughout this document the command amqutil is used as an
abbreviation for this longer command line. Of course, it should be
possible to create a script or batch file that allows amqutil to be
invoked this way (and a sample is included in the source code bundle).


  amqutil browse --host mybroker --port 6161 --destination testqueue
    List messages on destination testqueue, on broker mybroker:6161 Note
    that --url can be used instead of --host and --port

  amqutil browse --user fred --password secret --destination testqueue
    List messages on destination testqueue, on default broker
    localhost:6161, using specific connection credentials

  amqutil list
    List the destinations on the default broker

  amqutil show 23 --destination testqueue
    Print to the console details of message 23 on destination testqueue,
    without consuming the message

  amqutil produce 1000 --destination testqueue --batch 10
    Produce 1000 arbitrary 500-character text messages to testqueue in
    transacted batches of 10 messages

  amqutil produce 1000 --destination testqueue
    Produce 1000 arbitrary 500-character text messages to testqueue

  amqutil produce --destination testqueue --length 42
   Produce a single arbitrary text message of length 42 characters
   to testqueue

  amqutil --produce --destination testqueue --file data.txt
    Produce text file data.txt to testqueue

  amqutil consume --destination testqueue --format long
    Consume from the head of testqueue and display all message headers

  amqutil consume --destination testqueue --sleep 1000
    Consume from the head of testqueue and display the message ID only,
    pausing for 1000 msec after each message

  amqutil consume --destination testqueue --number 1000 --format none
  --times
    Time how long it takes to consume 1000 messages from testqueue

  amqutil subscribe --destination testtopic --format long
    Subscribe to testtopic and display one message in long format when
    it is published

  amqutil publish --destination testtopic --file topic.txt
    Publish the text in topic.txt to testtopic

  amqutil subscribe --destination testtopic --durable my-client
    Create a durable subscription with client ID my-client

  amqutil count --destination testtopic
    Count the messages on the specified destinatioN


Installing and running amqutil

You will need the compiled binary JAR file (see the Downloads section
below) and a recent Java JVM (Java 7 or later.) To run the utility,
install the JAR in any convenient directory, and then:


  java -jar /path/to/amqutil.jar {options}


Building

You will need to build amqutil if, for example, you want to change the
version of the A-MQ runtime support which it bundles. amqutil is a Maven
project. To build it, obtain and unpack the source code bundle, and then


  mvn compile assembly:single

or


  mvn package

This will create a JAR file in the target directory, which contains the
amqutil code and all the necessary ActiveMQ client support. To run the
utility, no other dependencies should be necessary; just use java -jar:


  java -jar target/amqutil-0.0.1-jar-with-dependencies.jar {options}

For Linux users, a script install_linux.sh is provided that will copy
the compiled JAR to /usr/share/amqutil and create an executable script
/usr/bin/ amqutil to run it. Thereafter, you should be able to run simply:


  $ amqutil {options}

Note that Maven will automatically download all the dependencies needed
to build amqutil -- about 10Mb of them. This might take some time on
the first build.

amqutil is configured to use version 5.9.0 of the ActiveMQ client
library. This can be changed my modifying the dependency in pom.xml.

The latest version of the source can be obtained from github.


Basic usage

All amqutil invocations takes the following form:


  amqutil [command] {options}

The command is mandatory, and specifies the mode of operation. Further
options depend on the command. In all cases, a brief description of the
available options can be obtained thus:


  amqutil [command] --help

To find out how to get more general information, just run


  amqutil help

The commands (modes of operation) available to amqutil are a follows.


browse


  amqutil browse

Display a list of messages on the destination whose name is given by
the -- destination option. To see individual message contents, use show,
passing the index of the message from the output of browse.


commands


  amqutil commands

Show a list of available commands.


consume


  amqutil consume {number} {--destination queue} {...}

Consume number messages from the queue destination whose name is given
by the - -destination option. If the number is omitted, one message will
be consumed.  The format of the displayed messages is controlled using
the --format option; to write consumed text messages to a text file,
using --file. If asked to consume more messages than are waiting on the
destination, amqutil will block until new messages are available.


count


  amqutil count {--destination queue} {...}

Displays the number of messages currently waiting on the specified
destination.


help


  amqutil help

Display a summary of command-line options.


list


  amqutil list

List the destinations on the message broker.


manual


  amqutil manual

Dump the whole manual (this file) to standard output in plain text format,
formatted for 80 character width.


produce


  amqutil produce {number} {--destination queue} {...}

Produce number messages to the queue destination whose name is given
by the -- destination option. By default, one message is produced. To
pproduce messages from a text file, use --file; otherwise a message of
--length characters is generated internally.


publish


  amqutil publish {number} {--destination topic} {...}

Publish number messages to the topic destination whose name is given
by the -- destination option. By default, one message is published. To
publish messages from a text file, use --file; otherwise a message of
--length characters is generated internally.


show


  amqutil show {message_index} {--destination queue} {...}

Displays in detail the message whose index is given by message_index,
on the queue whose name is given by --destination. The indices are
arbitrary, and correspond to the numbers displayed when using the browse
command. However, message zero is always the head of the queue, that is,
the message that will be consumed next. If the message is a text message,
its contents will be displayed. Note that it isn't an error to use this
option with a topic, but no messages will ever be shown.


subscribe


  amqutil subscribe {number} {--destination queue} {--durable ID} {...}

Subscribe to the topic destination whose name is given by the
--destination option. This operation blocks until number messages are
published to the topic.  If no number is given, wait for one message. The
message read may be displayed, according to the --format option.


version


  amqutil version

Show program version.


Command-line options

Not all command-line options are relevant to a specific command,
although -- host, --port, --url, --user, and --password are generally
applicable. To see which switches are applicable to a specific command,
use amqutil [command] -- help.

--batch {size} Produce or consume messages in transacted batches of
the specified size. Use -- batch 1 to use a transacted session without
batching.

-d, --destination {destination_name} Specifies the queue or topic name for
most other operations. If no name is given, the default is "__test_queue".

--durable {client-ID} Used in conjunction with amqutil subscribe, makes
subscriptions durable with the specified client ID.

--file {filename} When publishing or producing messages, read the
(text) message body from the specified file, rather than generating it
internally. The whole file is read or written, and any --length option
is ignored. This option reads and writes using the platform's default
character encoding (usually UTF-8 on Linux systems), even though this
may not be the encoding format used within the JMS broker itself.

--format {none|short|long|text|textonly} Format for messages that are 
displayed with consume, subscribe or show. none is useful for 
benchmarking, because console output is often slower than messaging 
operations. short displays only the message ID and type; long displays all 
headers; text displays all headers and also the message body, if it is text.

--host {hostname} The hostname or IP of the broker; defaults to localhost.

--jmstype {string} Set the value of the JMSType header.

--length {number} When generating messages internally, use the specified
number of characters.  Note that the number of bytes actually stored
will depend on the character encoding used by the JVM and/or the JMS
broker, and will typically be larger (rarely smaller) than the given
number of characters.

--loglevel {error|warn|info|debug} Sets the logging level, both of this
utility and the ActiveMQ client. In practice, although all these levels
are defined, the only ones that the ActiveMQ client uses are 'error'
and 'debug.' The default is 'error,' which means silent operation in
normal circumstances.

--linger {msec} In batch mode (see --batch), delay for the specified
time between receiving the batch, and acknowledging it. The batch size
can be usefully be 1. This switch simulates an 'abnormal' condition,
where the consumer takes a substantial time to acknowledge a message.

--nonpersistent Enable non-persistent delivery, when used with produce
or publish.

-p. --password {password} Specifies the password for authentication
against the AMQ broker. Default 'admin'.

--percent Prints percentage completion as an operation is performed;
this can be useful when dealing with huge numbers of messages.

--port {number} Broker's TCP/IP port number; default 61616

--properties {name=value[,name=value]...} Sets arbitrary string properties
to the message header before sending.  Properties are specified as
name1=value1,name2=value2....

--sleep {msec} Sleep (wait) for the specified number of milliseconds
after dispatching or consuming each message. See also --linger.

--selector {expression} When consuming messages from a queue, apply the
specified selector expression

--time Show the time in milliseconds taken to complete whatever operation
was specified.

--ttl {msec} When producing a message to a queue, set the expiration
time to the specified time.

-u, --user {username} Username for authentication on the broker. Default
'admin'.

--url {broker_url} Use a URL for connection to the broker, rather than a
simple host/port combination. This will be necessary if you want to work
with multiple brokers in a failover group. An example might be --url
failover:\(tcp://broker1: 61616,tcp://broker2:61616\). Note that the
parentheses have to be escaped here to protect them from the shell. If
--url is specified, then --host and --port are ignored.


Notes

When listing queue contents with browse, the first entry shown is the head
of the queue, that is, the message that would next be consumed. When
displaying messages without consuming them using show, the numeric
argument specifies the position in the queue, with zero being the head.

browse, show, and count all rely on the JMS queue browsing API. ActiveMQ
can be configured such such case, amqutil will not have access to all
the messages on a destination.

When producing a message to a destination, if no message file (--file)
is provided, then a string of 500 arbitrary characters will be produced,
or of length set by the --length switch.

If a file is specified when consuming messages, then messages will be
appended to that file, provided they are text messages. Any non-text
messages are silently ignored

When listing queue contents with --browse, no guarantee can be given
that the queue contents will not change before the next operation.

When producing a message from a text file, the file is read in the
platform's default character encoding.

It is not actually an error to use the --browse option on a topic, but
no messages will ever be shown -- that is a consequence of the way that
publish/ subscribe messaging works.

When the --consume option is used, and it blocks because there are
insufficient messages to consume, then the only way to stop the program
is to kill it (e.g., ctrl+C). If the --batch mode is used, and the
session is therefore transacted, any messages consumed will be returned
to the destination. This is not a bug although it can be confusing --
transacted sessions are designed to work that way.

Message delivery is persistent by default. To test non-persistent
delivery, use the --nonpersistent switch.

ActiveMQ supports multi-destination production and consumption. To
use this feature with amqutil, separate the multiple destinations with
commas. For example: --destination d1,d2,d3.

amqutil can monitor broker operation via advisory_topics. For example,
to monitor connections being opened and closed in real time:

  amqutil --subscribe --destination ActiveMQ.Advisory.Connection

However, most advisory topics are not enabled by default, and some
administrators are wary of enabling them, because of the additional
network and memory load they might create.

The --properties switch can be used to exercise some specific ActiveMQ
behavior. For example, setting the JMSXGroupID header should ensure
that a single consumer gets all the messages, regardless of the number
of consumers attached.

  amqutil --properties JMSXGroupID=something --produce ...



Limitations

amqutil is really only useful for sending and receiving text messages;
JMS does support other formats, but their contents are typically only
meaningful to specific the applications the use them.

The utility was developed and tested using Sun/Oracle JDK 1.7. Although
it uses no specific Java 7 language features or APIs, there are many
dependent libraries and drivers, and these may not work with earlier
Java versions.

At present, amqutil is Enlish-language only.


Revision history

0.1.1           June 2018 Initial Qpid AMQP support

0.1.0           March 2015 Re-written so that command-line arguments are
                specified differently for each sub-command, reducing the 
                chance of the user providing arguments that have no effect.

0.0.1           First functional release



Author

amqutil is mainted by Kevin Boone (kevin at railwayterrace dot com). It is
distributed under the terms of the GNU Public License, version 3.0, in the
hope that it will be useful. However, there is no warranty of any kind.


Download

Source_code_bundle_(Maven_project)
Precompiled_JAR_(including_A-MQ_runtime_components)

